Report an Accessibility Problem
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is committed to making its electronic and information technologies accessible to individuals with disabilities by meeting or exceeding the requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended in 1998. Section 508 is a federal law that requires agencies to provide individuals with disabilities equal access to electronic information and data comparable to those who do not have disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. The Section 508 standards are the technical requirements and criteria that are used to measure conformance within this law. More information on Section 508 and the technical standards can be found at www.section508.gov.
If you would like to report an accessibility problem with the CDC website, please e-mail the CDC Webmaster using the form below. Be sure to specify the web page or file being referenced in reporting the accessibility issue.
In 1998, Congress amended the Rehabilitation Act to require federal agencies to make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities. Inaccessible technology interferes with an individual′s ability to obtain and use information quickly and easily. Section 508 was enacted to eliminate barriers in information technology, to make available new opportunities for people with disabilities, and to encourage development of technologies that will help achieve these goals. The law applies to all Federal agencies when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology. Under Section 508 (29 USC 794d), agencies must give disabled employees and members of the public access to information that is comparable to the access available to others.
Section 508 (29 U.S.C. § 794d) requires that CDC, as a federal agency, provide electronic and information technology products that are accessible to people with disabilities. Under Section 508, CDC and other federal agencies must give disabled employees and members of the public access to this technology that is comparable to the access available to others. The law applies to all Federal agencies when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology.
CDC is committed to providing resources that are accessible to people of all abilities. If you find that any of our information products, including what you see on this site, are not in compliance with Section 508, please contact us by e-mail or phone at (404) 639-3534. When you contact us, please refer to the specific information found to be non-compliant. This will help us address the issue more quickly.