Their Future, in Our Hands
The latest edition of Hopkins Bloomberg Public Health features a special section on child health, examining urgent problems that threaten children’s well-being, and public health approaches and research that can help kids make their way toward a healthy adulthood.
Our Academic Program Offerings
Our programs welcome those from within and outside the traditional boundaries of public health. Whether you're a future college graduate, a midcareer public health leader, or someone looking to make a career change, we have a program for you.
Master of Public Health (MPH)
The Master of Public Health (MPH) is our most flexible degree. With 12 concentrations to choose from, students can tailor their degree to their unique goals while completing classes at their own pace on campus, fully online, or a mix of the two.
Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH)
The Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH) is a professional degree alternative to the Master of Public Health (MPH) degree for students who want more focused skills in a specific field of public health or who lack two years of health-related work experience to begin or advance a career as a public health professional. MSPH programs generally require one academic year of coursework, followed by a field placement. The field placement duration and location vary by department/concentration.
Register Today for the Winter Institute
Designed for busy working professionals and students, the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Winter Institute allows you to complete credit or non-credit courses in a short period of time. JHU employees may benefit from tuition remission.
Headlines
Why Experts Have Concluded That Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism
How a retracted study from the 1990s led to a persistent myth about vaccines.
What Is SNAP? And Why Does It Matter?
The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, also known as food stamps, is the United States’ largest anti-hunger program and helps an average of 41.7 million Americans per month.
Most of the Foods We Eat Are Ultra-Processed. Are They All Unhealthy?
Ultra-processed foods are associated with a long, ever-expanding list of adverse health outcomes. But what exactly classifies as an ultra-processed food—and are they all unhealthy?
How Public Health Can Thrive in a Hard Season
The years ahead will test our mettle, but we will deliver for public health.
Understanding the Evidence on Pregnancy, Tylenol, and Autism
The research so far—including one of the largest studies yet on the topic—suggests that Tylenol use during pregnancy does not cause autism.
For Better Health, Drink Less Alcohol
Although alcohol use is declining in the U.S., drinking still poses an enormous threat to public health.
For more on measles, check out these regularly updated resources from our Centers:
U.S. Measles Tracker from the International Vaccine Access Center
Measles Outbreak Response Strategies from the Center for Outbreak Response Innovation
Their Future, in Our Hands
A healthy childhood is essential for lifelong well-being, but urgent problems, like chronic absenteeism, the impact of digital devices on mental health, and exposures to environmental toxins, are threatening U.S. kids’ ability to thrive and flourish into adulthood.
How public health approaches and research can help prevent, minimize, and solve these issues is the focus of the special section of the 2025 Fall/Winter issue of Hopkins Bloomberg Public Health, available online now.
Research Saves Lives
Without research—at Johns Hopkins and at thousands of other universities, medical schools, and research institutions across the nation—scientific breakthroughs suffer, and the lifesaving treatments of tomorrow are at risk.
Subscribe to Stay Informed
Meet Our Faculty
Our faculty are world-renowned experts, and trusted advisers to our students, public health leaders, and the public.
Randy Bryant, PhD, studied mechanistic enzymology and now trains future scientists and public health leaders in the classroom, teaching biochemistry, and mentoring students.
Jaiprasath Sachithanandham, PhD, is a virologist who studies respiratory viruses like SARS-CoV-2 and H5N1, focusing on virus evolution and immune responses.
Karen Shen, PhD, conducts health economics research on healthcare labor markets and financing policies impacting aging populations and people with mental health and substance use disorders.
Roland J. Thorpe, Jr., PhD, MS, is a gerontologist and social epidemiologist with nationally-recognized expertise in minority aging, men’s health, and place-based disparities.
Join Us in Baltimore
Pursue a degree at the #1 school of public health in one of America's best cities. With 50+ museums, a bustling restaurant scene, gorgeous parks, and more, Baltimore is a great place to study and live.
Why Choose the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health?
#1
Ranked by U.S. News & World Report since 1994
1st
and Largest School of Public Health
1,800+
Courses Offered
80+
Research Centers and Institutes
29K+
Alumni Living in over 115 Countries
90+
Degree Programs
46
Certificate Programs
3:1
Student-to-Primary-Faculty Ratio
Support Our Work
Our work is made possible in part by contributions from Bloomberg School donors.