Population, Family and Reproductive Health
Our mission is to optimize the health and well-being of individuals, families, and populations across the life course through public health science, teaching and practice locally, nationally, and globally.
Population, Family and Reproductive Health Headlines
Student Spotlight: Pratik Prashant Neve
Volunteering as a data collector for a serological survey during the COVID-19 pandemic ignited Pratik's passion for public health.
What Is SNAP? And Why Does It Matter?
The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, also known as food stamps, is the United States’ largest anti-hunger program and helps an average of 41.7 million Americans per month.
For Adult Well-Being, Address Childhood Trauma
Helping children and adolescents cope with adverse experiences can prevent them from defining the future.
Research Saves Lives
Population, Family, and Reproductive Health plays a vital role in safeguarding the well-being of individuals, families and communities. Faculty, staff and trainees at the Bloomberg School and at research institutions across the U.S. identify the root causes of maternal and infant mortality, improve access to family planning, and enhance systems of care. Our efforts contribute to safer pregnancies, healthier families, and stronger communities, where informed healthcare strategies can mean the difference between life and death.
What’s Next for Family Planning?
Reeling from aid cuts, the sexual and reproductive health community comes together to make its way forward.
Frontline Research, Real Progress
From job sites to city streets, courtrooms to EHRs, five stories show public health’s reach and impact.
Research Helps Survivors of Intimate Partner Violence Get Support They Need
Backed by federal funding, public health researcher Michele Decker, ScD, MPH, works to understand the scope and impact of gender-based violence and to determine how to prevent it.
What We Do in the Department of Population, Family and Reproductive Health
The Department of Population, Family and Reproductive Health is dedicated to improving health throughout the life course worldwide. We train research scientists, public health leaders, and health professionals to excel in careers related to a broad spectrum of population, family, and reproductive health issues.
Population, Family and Reproductive Health Highlights
Alumni Network
1,000+ alumni living in 50+ countries
Research and Practice
11 centers and initiatives enhance your education
MCH Center of Excellence
Recipient of Maternal and Child Health grants from HHS/HRSA for 70 years
Unique Field Opportunities
Students have recently worked with UNICEF, the Bureau of Maternal and Child Health, International Health Research Institute, and WIC
Population, Family and Reproductive Health Programs
Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH)
The MSPH enables students to integrate coursework in the life course framework, PFRH areas of interest, policy, program management, and leadership with practical knowledge and skills.
Master of Health Science (MHS)
The MHS provides training in the life course framework, PFRH areas of interest statistics, and research and evaluation methods.
Bachelor's / Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH)
The Bachelor's/MSPH is designed exclusively for undergraduate students currently enrolled at Johns Hopkins University (JHU).
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
The emphasis of the PhD program is to apply coursework in life course theory, population, and core PFRH areas of interest through mentored, original, investigator-initiated research.
Centers and Institutes in the Department of Population, Family and Reproductive Health
PFRH is home to eleven research centers and initiatives that provide unrivaled hands-on experience with industry leaders domestically and globally.
Center for Adolescent Health
Center on the Early Life Origins of Disease
Center of Excellence in Maternal and Child Health
Johns Hopkins Center for Global Women’s Health and Gender Equity
Child and Adolescent Health Measurement Initiative (CAHMI)
Early Childhood Services Research Program
William H. Gates Sr. Institute for Population and Reproductive Health
Global Early Adolescent Study
Hopkins Population Center
STRONG Research Program
Women, Infants and Children Program (WIC)
Kay O'Neill, MSPH
Kay O'Neill, MSPH ’11, translates research findings into program practice, strengthening outcomes of programs that support vulnerable families.
Support Our Department
This work is made possible in part by contributions to from generous donors.