About
At the #1 ranked Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, we’re protecting health and saving lives—millions at a time.
As the largest school of public health in the world, we offer unrivaled breadth and depth.
The Bloomberg School works to keep millions around the world safe from illness and injury by pioneering new research, deploying knowledge in the field, and educating tomorrow’s public health leaders.
Our 10 academic departments, 1,800+ faculty, and 80+ research centers provide a public health education like no other.
As the first institution of its kind worldwide, we’re building on a rich history.
Since 1916, our people have eradicated smallpox, made water safe to drink, uncovered the dangers of tobacco, and contained the spread of HIV.
Epidemics, health equity, gun violence, and mental health are just some of the topics we’re tackling.
As the recipient of more research grants than any other school of public health, we’re hard at work around the globe on the biggest public health challenges of our time.
Meet Dean Pollack Porter
Keshia M. Pollack Porter, PhD ’06, MPH, an internationally recognized health policy scholar, dynamic leader, and unwavering advocate for public health, became the 12th dean of the Bloomberg School on August 1, 2025.
Our University and community offer rich opportunities for collaboration and impact.
We’re one of nine divisions at Johns Hopkins. We share a campus and countless collaborations with the School of Medicine and School of Nursing—both leaders in their fields. Together, we’re deeply engaged with our home city of Baltimore.
We believe strongly in our collective responsibility to meet the holistic health needs of all peoples and all communities.
We are taking purposeful actions to ensure that the Bloomberg School is an organization that embodies its values and realizes the power of its people, creating an environment where we fuel our creativity and ensure excellence by cultivating a diverse, inclusive, and nurturing environment for students, faculty, and staff.