Health Policy and Management
We advance evidence-informed solutions to systemic public health challenges and train tomorrow’s leading health administrators, advocates, policymakers, and researchers.
Health Policy & Management Headlines
Nearly 1 in 10 Adults in the U.S. Experienced a Mental Health Crisis Last Year
A new study shows significant disparities in mental health among groups.
Federal Housing Assistance Linked to Earlier Cancer Diagnosis in Older Adults
Medicare patients receiving federal housing assistance were less likely to be diagnosed with distant-stage breast, colorectal, and non-small cell lung cancers.
From Dissertation Seminars to the Editor’s Desk: Denys Lau’s Journey Through Public Health
Denys Lau, PhD ’02, helms one of the most influential public health journals as the 15th editor-in-chief of the American Journal of Public Health (AJPH).
What We Do in the Department of Health Policy and Management
Our faculty, staff and students are committed to solving the most entrenched public health challenges in the world through evidence-based policy change.
2023 - 2024 Year in Review
Every day, the Department of Health Policy & Management advances evidence-informed solutions to public health challenges and trains the next generation of leading health administrators, advocates, policymakers and researchers. Learn more about HPM's impact in the 2023 - 2024 academic year.
Health Policy and Management Highlights
#1
Health Policy & Management Department in the 2024 - 2025 U.S. News & World Report
350+
students and 2,000+ alumni
100+
full-time faculty
18
research centers
Health Policy and Management Programs
As one of the largest health policy and management programs in the country, we are dedicated to advancing local, national, and global health policy to make a difference.
Within four degree programs (three master’s and the PhD), students have opportunities to engage directly with faculty, study internationally, and complete practicums in the field, contributing directly to global policy.
Our students graduate with marketable skills and real-world experience, ready to make an impact, from the #1 school of public health.
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Health Policy and Management
Our PhD program trains students to conduct original investigator-initiated research through a combination of coursework and research mentoring.
Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH) in Health Policy
MSPH students evaluate health care and work with decision makers to identify relevant regulatory policies, strategies, and interventions. This program also prepares students for further doctoral training in economics and health policy.
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
The Master of Health Administration (MHA) program is uniquely designed for future health care executives early in their careers. The two-year accelerated curriculum includes one year of full-time academic coursework followed by a full-time, 11-month compensated administrative residency in one of many Hopkins affiliates and partner institutions across the country.
Master of Health Science (MHS) in Health Economics and Outcomes Research
The MHS in Health Economics and Outcomes Research is a professionally-oriented degree program designed for individuals seeking specialized academic training to establish or expand their careers as health policy analysts.
Chair of Health Policy and Management named next Dean of the Bloomberg School of Public Health
In February 2022, Keshia M. Pollack Porter, PhD, MPH, an expert in advancing health equity and policy change that promotes safe and healthy environments, became chair of the Department of Health Policy and Management (HPM) at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.
As of August 2025, she will assume a new role as dean of the Bloomberg School. HPM's faculty, staff, students, and alumni are grateful for her visionary leadership over the past 3 years and excited to see where she leads the School as dean!
Centers and Institutes in the Department of Health Policy and Management
We are home to 17 research and practice-based centers and institutes that focus on a range of public health issues. We also co-direct the Johns Hopkins-Pompeu Fabra University Public Policy Center, a collaboration between Johns Hopkins University, the Bloomberg School and the Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona, Spain.
Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Violence Solutions
Johns Hopkins Center for Health Disparities Solutions
Center for Health Services and Outcomes Research (CHSOR)
Johns Hopkins Center for Injury Research and Policy
Center for Law and the Public's Health
Center for Mental Health and Addiction Policy
Center for Population Health Information Technology (CPHIT)
Johns Hopkins Evidence-Based Practice Center
Institute for Health and Social Policy (IHSP)
Johns Hopkins Primary Care Policy Center
The Risk Sciences and Public Policy Institute at the Bloomberg School
The Roger and Flo Lipitz Center to Advance Policy in Aging and Disability
Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics
Hopkins’ Economics of Alzheimer’s Disease & Services Center
Lerner Center for Public Health Advocacy
Hopkins Business of Health Initiative
Johns Hopkins Drug Access and Affordability Initiative
About the Department's Commitment to IDARE
The Department of Health Policy and Management is committed to building a diverse, inclusive, nurturing environment where all students, faculty and staff can thrive. Our department's work often focuses on the intersection of racism and other forms of discrimination, health disparities and inequities, which impact policies that are at the forefront of national discussions. Our goal is for everyone in the department to understand the wide spectrum of human diversity and be the adequately equipped to advocate for policies and practices that advance equity, and inclusion. We are strengthened by our diverse community and understand the critical need for different perspectives and a genuine understanding of our many differences across race, ethnicity, gender, age, socio-economic status, national origin, sexual orientation, disability status, and religion, among others.
Mariana Socal, MD, PhD, MPP, MSc
is a health economist who studies ways to make the U.S. pharmaceutical market more competitive, reducing costs and ensuring a stable, high-quality prescription drug supply for the American people.
Meet Our Job-Seeking PhD Candidates
Our PhD candidates are seeking solutions to major health policy challenges. Read about their work and where they are headed with their careers.
Support Our Department
A gift to our department can help to provide student scholarships and internships, attract and retain faculty, and support innovation.