Resources for Practitioners
We are pleased to offer the following resources to support practitioners in their public health work.
Investigating Epidemics like COVID-19: An Analyst's Guide
Those curious about outbreaks and analysis and/or interested in a career detecting, investigating and/or analyzing data from outbreaks could benefit from this free, virtual course. The course uses audio, audiovisual, text, scenarios, and guided analytic practice to teach public health surveillance, outbreak response, and analysis of outbreak data.
Responsible Reporting on Suicide
Suicide is a leading cause of death worldwide. Public health organizations have identified training journalists to responsibly report on the topic as a key priority for prevention. The Bloomberg School is pleased to launch a free, online course designed to give journalists the concrete tools they need to meet that goal.
How to Deliver Effective Testimony: Tips from Public Health Experts
Delivering effective testimony is an essential advocacy skill for moving public health issues forward. The tips is this video, from the Lerner Center for Public Health Advocacy, can guide your approach to providing testimony that will lead to lasting change.
Adapting Public Health Messages for Social Media: Tips You Can Use With Your Communities
This half-hour recorded training offers strategies and tips on how to create engaging and informative public health content for social media, based on practices that the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health's award-winning social media team used to engage hundreds of millions of people during the pandemic. This training was produced by our Center for Teaching and Learning with support from Bloomberg Philanthropies.
COVID-19 Public Health Workforce Training Initiatives
Public health workers and community members across the globe can access Bloomberg School online courses and tailored training certificates and programs on contact tracing and related topics.
Over 500,000 people have enrolled in the COVID-19 contact tracing course developed by a team of faculty, staff, and students in partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies and local public health departments and made available for free on the Coursera platform, along with additional JHU Coursera offerings. This much-needed contact tracing course has helped scale up the public health workforce in real time in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Resources for Reducing Harm from Overdose and Addiction
Nearly 841,000 Americans have died from overdoses since 1999, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. While opioids account for a majority of deaths, as many as one-third of overdose deaths are attributable to other drugs, including amphetamines and cocaine. Public health experts agree on many approaches to reduce harm from addiction and overdose—stigma reduction, overdose prevention, and mental health support. The Bloomberg School is taking a leading role in advancing these approaches through public policy, community involvement, and education.
Free Coursera offerings and MOOCs
Practitioners can also access dozens of courses from Bloomberg School faculty on Coursera. Practice-focused offerings include courses on topics such as gun violence, food systems, health equity, and epidemiology, among others.
Topical and Skills-based Training Opportunities
Public health practitioners looking to obtain training in on-demand public health topics and skills in areas such as communications, data analytics, resource management, and disease prevention and control can access free trainings through the Mid-Atlantic Regional Public Health Training Center (MAR-PHTC).
SBC Learning Central
The Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs has developed 20 free online courses and counting for French- and English-speaking social and behavior change communication practitioners and stakeholders working across key public health topics (e.g., sexual and reproductive health, malaria, nutrition, and emergency outbreaks).The goal of this practical resource is to help institutionalize social and behavior change approaches and create a critical mass of skilled practitioners and supportive decision makers worldwide. Inspiring healthy behaviors can improve the lives of individuals and their families.
TRUST in Public Health
The Center for Health Security has launched a new website—Tackling Rumors and Understanding and Strengthening Trust—to support public health professionals in addressing misinformation and building trust in public health. The TRUST website provides tools, resources, and guidance, informed by the experiences of more than 100 front-line workers.
Professional Trainings for Organizations
The Office of Continuing and Executive Education offers professional development opportunities to empower your employees and organization.