In the School
Applied learning is at the core of our educational mission.
Practicums and field placements
We engage students in activities that align with their career goals and apply public health concepts and critical thinking relevant to the student’s area of interest.
Practicums and field placements further develop their skill sets and add new tools to their professional toolkit. Upon completion of their degree program, students have practical experiences and skills to share with potential employers.
All professional degree students (MPH, MSPH, DrPH, MHA) complete a practicum experience to comply with accreditation requirements.
Conversations and Connections
Ongoing conversations hosted by the Office of Public Health Practice bring faculty, staff, students, and alumni together to explore important tools and topics for advancing public health, equity, and social justice in Baltimore, across the nation, and around the world.
Our conversations emphasize the knowledge, skills, and tools needed to advance public health and to help students navigate their own career transitions and trajectories. These conversations engage the School community around topics such as response to COVID-19 and other pressing public health problems, racism and health equity, local and global advocacy, and public health communications in times of crisis.
Students play a leading role in these conversation events by suggesting topics, moderating sessions, and organizing student-driven discussions.
Practice-Focused Student Activities
Events offered by the Student Assembly and various Bloomberg School student groups provide students the chance to explore new topics, learn about different cultures, and gain new skills.
Student-driven events include professional development and advocacy-oriented field trips, policy hackathons, special events to celebrate Public Health Practice Week, and seminars featuring public health practitioners and leaders working on the front lines in key current-day issues such as the opioid crisis, health equity, gun violence, e-cigarettes, and more.