Master's Degrees
A master's degree from the Bloomberg School catalyzes the powers of education, science, partnerships, people, and advocacy. We offer nine different master’s degree programs to train you to become the next public health leader.
Master of Public Health (MPH)
The Master of Public Health is a flexible school-wide degree program offering full-time and part-time options, in-person or online. The rigorous curriculum prepares students to become leading public health professionals capable of addressing current global health problems with multidisciplinary, evidence-based approaches.
Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH)
The Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH) is a professional degree alternative to the Master of Public Health (MPH) degree for students who want more focused skills in a specific field of public health or who lack two years of health related work experience in order to begin or advance a career as a public health professional.
Master of Applied Science (MAS)
The Master of Applied Science programs are fully online, part-time degrees that will prepare public health practitioners, researchers, and policymakers to address complex public health challenges. The hands on training in these online degree programs are valuable to both an established career and to those who have recently entered the workforce.
- Patient Safety and Healthcare Quality
- Population Health Management
- Spatial Analysis for Public Health
Master of Health Science (MHS)
The Bloomberg School offers the Master of Health Science (MHS) degree program in every department. Through in-depth study and research in a particular public health discipline, the MHS prepares students for further graduate work or research careers.
At a minimum, the MHS degree programs require four terms of full-time coursework, a written culmination such as a thesis, essay or other written exercise, and an oral presentation.
Master of Science (ScM)
Master of Science (ScM) students at the Bloomberg School are generally interested in hands-on experiences leading to prominent careers in public health research.
At a minimum, the ScM degree programs require four terms of full-time coursework, a written culmination such as a thesis, essay or other written exercise, and an oral presentation.
Master of Arts in Public Health Biology (MAPHB)
The Master of Arts is a fully online, part-time degree program. This innovative, interdisciplinary program focuses on biological tenets and research methods that are relevant to current issues in public health. The MA degree integrates major strengths of the School, providing unmatched opportunities for advanced training to prepare students to observe, understand and address public health problems from a multidisciplinary perspective.
Master of Bioethics (MBE)
The Master of Bioethics degree is a collaborative program of the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics and the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. The goal of the MBE program is to prepare students from diverse individual and professional backgrounds for the bioethics challenges of professional and civic life.
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
This accelerated program is ranked in the top ten of graduate programs in health administration by U.S. News and World Report and provides a rigorous and comprehensive academic experience with a career-building residency. The curriculum includes a wide variety of courses and opportunities to study current economic, social, technical and marketplace issues that are directly influencing the health sector today.
Master of Science in Toxicology for Human Risk Assessment (MS)
The Master of Science (MS) in Toxicology for Human Risk Assessment is the only program of its kind in the United States. Our innovative masters program equips graduates with the knowledge and skills needed to begin or advance their career as professionals in the evolving field of human health and environmental risk assessment.