About Mayo ClinicSolving the world's toughest medical problems
— one person at a time
Who we areTransforming health care
Mayo Clinic is the largest integrated, not-for-profit medical group practice in the world. We're building the future, one where the best possible care is available to everyone — and more people can heal at home. Our relentless research turns into earlier diagnoses and new cures. That's how we inspire hope in those who need it most.
Innovating for new solutions
At Mayo Clinic, experts work together to solve the most challenging unmet needs of patients. Our history of innovation dates back almost 150 years, when brothers Will and Charlie Mayo pioneered an integrated, team-based approach to medicine. Today, that trailblazing spirit drives innovations like Mayo Clinic Platform — which powers new technologies to change how care is delivered to all.
Top rankings for quality care
Our unwavering drive to create better medical care has earned Mayo Clinic more top rankings for high-quality patient care than any other health care organization. In fact, Mayo Clinic has more specialties ranked in the top three than any other hospital in the nation.
Our impactBuilding a healthier world
We think big and act boldly to improve the health of communities and accelerate equality and diversity in health care. We share our knowledge globally, impact policy, and partner with others to create lasting — and much-needed — change for a healthier world.
Improving health equity
We partner with community organizations to end health disparities through education programs, personalized health care, and community-engaged research. We're accelerating recruitment of diverse investigators and clinical trial participants to eliminate bias in medicine and science and ensure more cures for all. We're strengthening our diversity and inclusion pipelines for health care professionals and leadership development. We're also using our platform to make innovative care accessible for all. And we're just getting started.
Belonging
$100 million to eliminate racism and advance empowered belonging within Mayo Clinic — and to improve health equity.
Greenhouse gas reduction
50% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and 20% reduction in energy within 10 years as part of our commitment to the Better Climate Challenge.
People and culturePeople who make the difference
Everyone at Mayo Clinic is on a mission to provide compassionate, world-class care to each person, in every connection. That includes 1.3 million patients from over 130 countries who visit Mayo Clinic campuses each year. We also train future health leaders who share our drive to transform health care.
Mayo Clinic is a nonprofit organization committed to clinical practice, education, and research, providing whole-person care to everyone who needs healing. Here, experts solve the biggest health care challenges together. Behind our top rankings, you'll find a diverse, inclusive culture of teamwork, excellence, mutual respect, and dedication to putting patients first. We are undaunted by the unknown and walk alongside patients on their journeys to find answers and solutions.
“A diverse staff makes every single aspect of our organization better. At Mayo Clinic, we work to create the right environment for our staff to thrive, feel valued, enjoy their work, and provide an unparalleled patient experience.”
Gianrico Farrugia, M.D.
President & CEO, Mayo Clinic
ResourcesDiscover more about Mayo Clinic
Campuses in Minnesota, Arizona, and Florida, a network of regional clinics and hospitals, and international locations
Overseeing our charitable, clinical, scientific, and educational mission
Public reporting information for our participation as a Medicare ACO
Helping us provide the best care to every patient
Expertise and resources for member medical organizations
Mayo Clinic is committed to providing whole-person care to everyone who needs healing.