Heart arrhythmia care at Mayo Clinic
Mayo Clinic doctors trained in heart and blood vessel conditions (cardiologists), heart rhythm conditions (electrophysiologists), heart and blood vessel surgery (cardiovascular surgeons), and other areas collaborate as a multidisciplinary team to provide the most appropriate care for people with arrhythmia and other heart conditions.
- One-stop care. A detailed itinerary for appointments, tests and procedures lets you make the most of your time at Mayo Clinic. All tests and labs are done at Mayo, which means tests taken in the morning can often be reviewed the same afternoon. This collaborative approach means your care team often can evaluate you and develop a treatment plan within 2 to 3 days.
- Advanced diagnosis and treatment. Researchers in Mayo Clinic's Cardiovascular Research Center focus on developing diagnostic tests and innovative treatments for people with cardiovascular disease.
- Innovative research. Professionals in the Heart Rhythm Clinic actively research the genetics, causes, diagnostic tests and treatments for arrhythmia and conduct clinical trials.
Expertise and rankings
Mayo Clinic doctors have extensive experience and expertise in diagnosing and treating people with all types of arrhythmia. Mayo doctors evaluate and treat more than 53,000 people with arrhythmia each year.
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, Mayo Clinic in Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona, and Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida, are ranked among the Best Hospitals for heart and heart surgery by U.S. News & World Report. Mayo Clinic Children's in Rochester is ranked the No. 1 hospital in Minnesota and the five-state region of Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wisconsin, according to U.S. News & World Report's 2025-2026 "Best Children's Hospitals" rankings.
Mayo Clinic Children's
Highly skilled pediatric experts diagnose and treat all types of conditions in children. As a team, we work together to find answers, set goals and develop a treatment plan tailored to your child's needs.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic Children's.
Locations, travel and lodging
Mayo Clinic has major campuses in Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; Jacksonville, Florida; and Rochester, Minnesota. The Mayo Clinic Health System has dozens of locations in several states.
For more information on visiting Mayo Clinic, choose your location below:
Costs and insurance
Mayo Clinic works with hundreds of insurance companies and is an in-network provider for millions of people.
In most cases, Mayo Clinic doesn't require a physician referral. Some insurers require referrals or may have additional requirements for certain medical care. All appointments are prioritized on the basis of medical need.
Learn more about appointments at Mayo Clinic.
Please contact your insurance company to verify medical coverage and to obtain any needed authorization prior to your visit. Often, your insurer's customer service number is printed on the back of your insurance card.
Mayo Clinic Heart Rhythm Program
Arizona
Florida
Minnesota
Oct. 13, 2023