Sarcoma care at Mayo Clinic
The doctors at Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center are respected for their expertise in diagnosing and treating sarcoma. At Mayo Clinic, you can expect compassionate, comprehensive care that's focused on your individual needs.
Your Mayo Clinic Care team
At Mayo Clinic, specialists in sarcoma include adult and pediatric medical oncologists, radiation oncologists, orthopedic and general surgeons, and pathologists. They work as a multidisciplinary team to care for people with sarcoma. Other healthcare professionals are included as needed, such as specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation.
A full range of treatment options
Mayo Clinic doctors will work with you to review all your treatment options and choose the treatment that best suits your needs and goals.
The range of treatments offered to people with sarcoma includes:
- Surgery, including innovations designed to preserve function as much as possible, such as rotationplasty and prosthetics.
- Systemic therapies, including chemotherapy, targeted therapy and immunotherapy medicines.
- Radiation therapy, including innovative treatments such as intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) and proton therapy.
- Clinical trials.
Expertise and rankings
Mayo Clinic experts have extensive experience diagnosing and treating sarcoma. When you seek care here, you can expect:
- Personalized care. At Mayo Clinic, adult and pediatric medical oncologists, radiation oncologists, orthopedic surgeons that specialize in sarcoma treatment, pathologists, and specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation work as a multidisciplinary team to create a care plan that takes all your needs into consideration. Other healthcare professionals are included as needed.
- Experience you can trust. Mayo Clinic experts have experience diagnosing and treating all types of sarcomas, including very rare types.
- Nationally recognized expertise. Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center meets the strict standards for a National Cancer Institute Comprehensive Cancer Center. These standards recognize scientific excellence and a multispecialty approach focused on cancer prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida, and Mayo Clinic in Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona, are ranked among the Best Hospitals for cancer by U.S. News & World Report.
Mayo Clinic Children's
Highly skilled pediatric experts diagnose and treat all types of conditions in children. As a team, we work together to find answers, set goals and develop a treatment plan tailored to your child's needs.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic Children's.
Locations, travel and lodging
Mayo Clinic has major campuses in Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; Jacksonville, Florida; and Rochester, Minnesota. The Mayo Clinic Health System has dozens of locations in several states.
For more information on visiting Mayo Clinic, choose your location below:
Costs and insurance
Mayo Clinic works with hundreds of insurance companies and is an in-network provider for millions of people.
In most cases, Mayo Clinic doesn't require a physician referral. Some insurers require referrals or may have additional requirements for certain medical care. All appointments are prioritized on the basis of medical need.
Learn more about appointments at Mayo Clinic.
Please contact your insurance company to verify medical coverage and to obtain any needed authorization prior to your visit. Often, your insurer's customer service number is printed on the back of your insurance card.
Jan. 22, 2025