Mayo Clinic is the first and largest integrated group practice in the world. Its mission is to inspire hope and contribute to health and well-being by providing the best care to every patient through integrated clinical practice, education and research.
Mayo Clinic Supply Chain Management supports this mission through the provision of products and information that directly support patient care. Each year, Mayo Clinic facilities in four states purchase more than $4.9 billion in supplies, medical equipment and services.
To reduce overall expenses, Mayo Clinic actively leverages its purchasing volume by seeking agreements with suppliers in certain product and service categories to serve all Mayo Clinic facilities. Working with a group-purchasing organization, Mayo Clinic pursues national contracting opportunities that offer value to all health care facilities in its system.
Current suppliers
To continue as suppliers, companies currently doing business with Mayo Clinic must complete a vendor onboarding process. This onboarding process determines whether your company meets standards put in place due to increased regulatory requirements. For more information, see Mayo Clinic Supplier Guidelines.
Product recall notifications
In the event of a product issue or recall, suppliers should email all notifications to: scmrecalls@mayo.edu.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) allows recall notices to be sent by email. Paper is no longer required. See FDA Guidance (2006): Using Electronic Means to Distribute Certain Product Information.
End of vendor support and end of manufacture
Healthcare Technology Management at Mayo Clinic monitors equipment support for all medical equipment (including lab and research equipment). Vendors are required to promptly notify Mayo Clinic of any updates regarding end of vendor support and end of manufacture for their products. Please send all correspondence to HTMVendorInfor@mayo.edu. Your cooperation is greatly appreciated.
Potential suppliers
For your company to be eligible to submit bids or sell products and services to Mayo Clinic, you need to complete a vendor onboarding process. A Mayo Clinic department that has an existing or new business relationship with your company will submit the vendor and contact information to initiate the vendor onboarding process. Vendors may receive correspondences with questions when verifying company information prior to completing the onboarding requirement.
Completing the onboarding process does not guarantee your company the opportunity to conduct business with Mayo Clinic.
If you have questions about the vendor onboarding processes, please contact:
Mayo Clinic Supply Chain Management Customer Support
Phone: 507-266-5551