Print Adult congenital heart disease care at Mayo ClinicYour Mayo Clinic care teamMayo Clinic doctors trained in heart disease (cardiologists) and heart surgery (cardiovascular surgeons) have experience evaluating and treating adults with congenital heart disease and all types of heart conditions. Collaborative care. Mayo cardiologists, cardiovascular surgeons and other health professionals work together to provide coordinated, comprehensive care. This collaborative approach means that they can often evaluate you and develop a treatment plan within 2 to 3 days. Mayo Clinic provides care for you as a whole person. We take the time to get to know you and work with you to provide exactly the care you need. Advanced diagnosis and treatment. When possible, cardiovascular surgeons use minimally invasive heart surgery to treat adults with congenital heart disease. The Mayo Clinic experience and patient stories Our patients tell us that the quality of their interactions, our attention to detail and the efficiency of their visits mean health care like they've never experienced. See the stories of satisfied Mayo Clinic patients. (VIDEO) Hockey exec wins faceoff against heart issueDr. Jason Anderson discussing the new valve with Kyle Davidson A general manager of a professional sports team is a job that inherently comes with a high amount of stress, difficulty and demand — making important decisions that affect the future of a franchise. But recently at Mayo Clinic, Chicago Blackhawks GM Kyle Davidson made a crucial choice about his personal health that affects his own future — undergo another open-heart surgery or have a… Britiny's teamBritiny Schultz Britiny Schultz can't wait for fall. A huge football fan, she's looking forward to cheering on her favorite teams. It's something many fans take for granted — not Britiny. She's able to keep cheering, thanks to her doctors at Mayo Clinic and the incredible gift of life from not just one, but two organ donors. Britiny and her nieces and nephews The South Dakota native says she closely follows two teams: "The Bison… Expertise and rankingsMayo Clinic doctors have extensive experience in treating people with congenital heart disease. Each year, Mayo Clinic health professionals evaluate and treat nearly 14,000 adults with congenital heart disease. Each Mayo Clinic location offers treatment for adults with congenital heart disease in the Adult Congenital Heart Disease Clinic. Healthcare professionals in the Center for Congenital Heart Disease at Mayo Clinic's campus in Minnesota treats adults with congenital heart disease and children with congenital heart defects. Nationally recognized expertise Mayo Clinic campuses are nationally recognized for expertise in cardiology and cardiovascular surgery: The Adult Congenital Heart Disease Association (ACHA) has designated the Adult Congenital Heart Disease (ACHD) Clinic at Mayo Clinic's campus in Rochester, Minnesota, as an ACHA/ACHD Accredited Comprehensive Care Center. This accreditation was achieved because the ACHD Clinic meets personnel requirements, offers specific medical services, and uses policies and procedures that help ensure the highest level of care for adults with congenital heart disease. This accreditation also signifies that Mayo Clinic has doctors with special expertise in diagnosing and treating congenital heart disease. Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, Mayo Clinic in Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona, and Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida, are ranked among the Best Hospitals for heart and heart surgery by U.S. News & World Report. Mayo Clinic Children's in Rochester is ranked the No. 1 hospital in Minnesota and the five-state region of Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wisconsin, according to U.S. News & World Report's 2025-2026 "Best Children's Hospitals" rankings. With Mayo Clinic's emphasis on collaborative care, specialists at each of the campuses — Minnesota, Arizona and Florida — interact very closely with colleagues at the other campuses and the Mayo Clinic Health System. Learn more about Mayo Clinic's cardiovascular medicine and cardiovascular surgery departments' expertise and rankings. Locations, travel and lodgingMayo Clinic has major campuses in Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; Jacksonville, Florida; and Rochester, Minnesota. The Mayo Clinic Health System has dozens of locations in several states. For more information on visiting Mayo Clinic, choose your location below: Mayo Clinic's campus in Arizona Mayo Clinic's campus in Florida Mayo Clinic's campus in Minnesota Mayo Clinic Health System Mayo Clinic Healthcare, located in London Costs and insuranceMayo Clinic works with hundreds of insurance companies and is an in-network provider for millions of people. In most cases, Mayo Clinic doesn't require a physician referral. Some insurers require referrals or may have additional requirements for certain medical care. All appointments are prioritized on the basis of medical need. Learn more about appointments at Mayo Clinic. Please contact your insurance company to verify medical coverage and to obtain any needed authorization prior to your visit. Often, your insurer's customer service number is printed on the back of your insurance card. More information about billing and insurance: Mayo Clinic in Arizona, Florida and Minnesota Mayo Clinic Health System ContactArizona Mayo Clinic Adult Congenital Heart Disease 13400 E. Shea Blvd. Scottsdale, AZ 85259 Phone: 480-301-8484 Florida Mayo Clinic Adult Congenital Heart Disease 4500 San Pablo Road Jacksonville, FL 32224 Phone: 904-953-0859 Minnesota Mayo Clinic Adult Congenital Heart Disease 200 First St. SW Rochester, MN 55905 Phone: 507-738-4002 By Mayo Clinic Staff Request an appointment Doctors & departments April 06, 2024 Print Living with congenital heart disease in adults? Connect with others like you for support and answers to your questions in the Transplants support group on Mayo Clinic Connect, a patient community. Transplants Discussions How long does it take to recover from donating a kidney? 9 Replies Sat, Nov 15, 2025 chevron-right Any pointers, we meet with pulmonologist regarding lung transplant? 5 Replies Sun, Nov 09, 2025 chevron-right Snapshots of hope: Life on the other side of transplant. 110 Replies Sun, Nov 09, 2025 chevron-right See more discussions Related Kinser's story Robotic or minimally invasive cardiac surgery for adult-adolescent congenital heart disease Associated Procedures Aortic valve repair and aortic valve replacement Cardiac catheterization Chest X-rays Echocardiogram Electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) Heart transplant Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) Pacemaker Stress test Show more associated procedures News from Mayo Clinic How can adults with congenital heart disease reduce risks? Study finds lifetime cardiology monitoring is key Products & Services A Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health Book Newsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital Edition Show more products and services from Mayo Clinic Congenital heart disease in adultsSymptoms&causesDiagnosis&treatmentDoctors&departmentsCare atMayoClinic CON-20248753 Diseases & Conditions Congenital heart disease in adults