Academic Positions Available Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology
- Employer
- Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology
- Location
- Shenzhen, Guangdong, China
- Salary
- Competitive
- Closing date
- 29 Jan 2026
View more categoriesView less categories
- Discipline
- Applied Science, Biomedicine, Computing, Health Science, Life Science
- Job Type
- Faculty Member, Postdoctoral, Research Assistant, Researcher
- Employment - Hours
- Full time
- Duration
- Permanent
- Qualification
- PhD
- Sector
- Academia
Job Details
Academic Positions Available
Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology
About SUAT
Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology (SUAT) is a newly established and highly rated university in Shenzhen, a city full of charms, energy, vitality and innovation. With the support of the Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology as well as it's abundant resources in science, education, and industry, SUAT will build a first-class and new-type research university with "high starting point, high standard and high quality".
SUAT has already attracted a cohort of outstanding scientists from major research institutes and universities around the world. Bolstered by excellent scientiﬁc, educational, and industrial resources from the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangdong Province and Shenzhen City, SUAT fosters interdisciplinary research and training, integrates research and entrepreneurship into education, and aims to be a world-class university of science and technology. With a trinity of colleges (academic colleges, research institutes, and residential colleges), SUAT nurtures students through a three-track educational system encompassing basic science, engineering, and entrepreneurship. It embraces a philosophy of educating elite undergraduates, tailoring the instruction towards the education of outstanding scientists, exceptional engineers, and innovative entrepreneurs.
In 2024, SUAT has enrolled its ﬁrst cohort of 120 undergraduate students in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics track. The 120 strong SUATers were among the highest-ranked high school students from Guangdong Province with the national entrance exam scores ranging from 664 to 624, which exceeded the undergraduate admission line by 182 points.
To meet the challenges of emerging science, technology and industry and to energize the emerging productive forces, SUAT has established seven faculties, namely the Faculty of Life and Health Sciences, the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, the Faculty of Computer Science and Control Engineering, the Faculty of Synthetic Biology, the Faculty of Materials Science and Energy Engineering, the Faculty of Biomedical Engineering and the Faculty of Computer Science and Microelectronics, in addition to a number of research institutes including the Institute of Cell and Gene Technology, the Institute of Emerging Agricultural Technology and the Institute of Artificial Intelligence Research, and Institute of Advanced Medical Devices and Institute of Higher Education and Future Medical Center .
For more information, please visit the school official website:
https://www.suat-sz.edu.cn/xxgk/xxjs.htm
The following is a list of SUAT’s current faculties and institutes:
Faculty
|
Faculty of Life and Health Sciences Department of Biology Interdisciplinary Center for Bio-Intelligence Department of Neuroscience Department of Mental Health and Public Health |
|
Faculty of Synthetic Biology Department of Biological Sciences Department of Engineering Biology Frontier Interdisciplinary Center Specialized Teaching Platform |
|
Faculty of Computer Science and Control Engineering Department of Computer Science and Engineering Department of Intelligent Science and Technology Department of Robotics and Automation Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering Department of Computational Biology and Medical Big Data |
|
Faculty of Biomedical Engineering Department of Life Electronics Department of Imaging and Information Department of Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering Department of Neurorehabilitation Engineering |
|
Faculty of Materials Science and Energy Engineering Department of Electronic Information Materials Department of Smart Energy Materials Department of Biomedical Materials |
|
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Engineering Department of Biopharmaceuticals Department of Pharmacology Department of Pharmaceutical Materials and Translational Medicine Center for Intelligent Pharmacy |
|
Faculty of Computility Microelectronics Department of Computational Engineering Department of Integrated Circuit Engineering |
Institute
|
Institute of Cell and Gene Technology Center for Cell Proliferation, Differentiation and Fate Regulation Center for Gene Regulation and Editing Center for Green Agriculture Research .......... |
|
Institute of Emerging Agricultural Technology Center for Next-Generation Germplasm Innovation Center for Plant Proteins Innovation Center for the Innovation of Functional Plants Center for the Study of Plant-Environment Interactions |
|
Artificial Intelligence Research Institute of SUAT Center for Neurocognition and Social Behavior Large Model Research Center Computer Vision and Recognition Center .......... |
|
Institute of Advanced Medical Devices Advanced Imaging Laboratory Innovative Diagnostic Laboratory Medical Materials Laboratory .......... |
|
Institute of Higher Education |
|
Future Medical Center |
|
Institute of Intelligent Robotics |
|
Institute of Scientific Instruments |
Available Positions and Requirements
Individuals are invited to apply for one of the following positions:
01 Tenured Professor
Applicants should have a sustained and high-level academic output with strong academic influence in their respective fields. Their academic achievements should be widely recognized and respected by the academic community both domestically and internationally. A doctoral degree is required, along with experience in holding a position equivalent to an Associate Professor or above at a renowned overseas university or research institution, demonstrating high research standards and strong innovation capabilities.
02 Associate Professor
In principle, excellent young scientists with an age of 40 years old or young are welcome to apply for this position. Generally applicants should have obtained a formal teaching or research position in an overseas university, scientific research institution or enterprise R&D institution, and have ≥36 consecutive months of working experience. For those candidates with an overseas doctoral degree and outstanding academic achievements, the requirement for overseas working experience can be reduced. Outstanding candidates who have been working in China are also encouraged to apply.
03 Tenure-Track Assistant Professor
Applicants should hold a doctoral degree in the relevant field, have made important scientific achievements, and show excellent academic potential and teaching ability.
04 Postdoctoral Fellow
Applicants should have a doctoral degree within 3 last years and generally be 35 years old or younger (exceptional candidates older than 35 will also be considered), and have strong credentials and excellent scientific research ability.
05 Research Scientist
Applicants should hold a doctoral degree, have at least 2years of postgraduate research experience, an excellent independent research ability and teamwork mentality.
06 Research Assistant
Applicants should hold a MS degree and demonstrate the ability to assist in project research and the daily management of projects.
SUAT provides highly competitive compensation, benefits, and startup packages.
Interested individuals should contact the relevant departments listed below:
01 Human Resources Department
Contact：Ms. Zhang
Email：recruit@suat-sz.edu.cn
02 Faculty Contact
Faculty of Life and Health Sciences
Contact：Ms. Sun
Email：lhs_recruit@suat-sz.edu.cn
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Contact：Mr.Li
Email：pharm.hr@suat-sz.edu.cn
Faculty of Computer Science and Control Engineering
Contact：Ms. Yan
Email：yanjingjing@suat-sz.edu.cn
Faculty of Synthetic Biology
Contact：Ms. Gao
Email：synbiofaculty_hr@suat-sz.edu.cn
Faculty of Materials Science and Energy Engineering
Contact：Ms. Du
Email：msee-hr@suat-sz.edu.cn
Faculty of Biomedical Engineering
Contact：Ms. Lin
Email：linshaocong@suat-sz.edu.cn
Faculty of Computility Microelectronics
Contact：Mr. Huang
Email：dh.huang@suat-sz.edu.cn
03 Institute Contact
Institute of Cell and Gene Technology
Contact：Ms. Liu
Email：icgt@suat-sz.edu.cn
Institute of Emerging Agricultural Technology
Contact：Ms. Sun
Email：sunning@suat-sz.edu.cn
Institute of Artificial Intelligence
Contact：Ms. Xie
Email：xielu@suat-sz.edu.cn
Institute of Advanced Medical Devices
Contact：Mr.He
Email：jy.he@nmed.org.cn
Future Medical Center
Contact：Ms. Zhu
Email：zhulin@suat-sz.edu.cn
Company
Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology (hereinafter referred to as "SUAT"), based on the rich academic and scientific resources of the Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences (hereinafter referred to as "SIAT"), is a new research-oriented university built with “high starting point, high level, high standards, and high quality.” With the support of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Guangdong Province, SUAT collaborates with SIAT in scientific and educational cooperation, leveraging complementary advantages for win-win development.
After nearly six years of preparation, SUAT has gathered a high-level teaching staff dominated by overseas high-level talents. Relying on the excellent scientific, educational, and industrial resources of first-class scientific research institutions, and drawing on the educational models of world-class universities of science and technology, SUAT integrates industry and education, blends science and education, and fosters interdisciplinary majors. With a trinity of colleges (academic colleges, research institutes, and residential colleges), SUAT nurtures talents through a three-track cultivation system encompassing academics, engineering, and entrepreneurship. It offers elite undergraduate education, tailoring instruction to cultivate outstanding scientists, exceptional engineers, and innovative entrepreneurs.
In 2024, SUAT will enroll its first cohort of undergraduate students, admitting 120 physics majors of Guangdong Province. The highest admission score was 664, while the lowest was 624, exceeding the undergraduate admission line by 182 points. As a representative of new research universities, SUAT has garnered widespread attention and recognition from candidates and parents for its innovative and unique talent cultivation model, as well as its campus culture that promotes the spirit of scientists and the spirit of special economic zones.
SUAT and SIAT collaborate in scientific and educational endeavors, mutually empowering each other through dual appointments, resource sharing, and complementary advantages. Together, they serve the construction of a powerful country in education, science and technology, and talent development. Meanwhile, this collaboration provides SUAT with high-level international teaching resources and national-level research platforms, supporting its rapid advancement towards world-class status in emerging and interdisciplinary fields.
Apply for Academic Positions Available Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantly
Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert