Since 1948, we have been the United Nations agency dedicated to advancing health for all.
We champion health and a better future for all
Dedicated to the well-being of all people and guided by science, the World Health Organization leads and champions global efforts to give everyone, everywhere an equal chance to live a healthy life.
Who we are
Founded in 1948, WHO is the United Nations agency that connects nations, partners and people to promote health, keep the world safe and serve the vulnerable – so everyone, everywhere can attain the highest level of health.
What we do
WHO leads global efforts to expand universal health coverage. We direct and coordinate the world’s response to health emergencies. And we promote healthier lives – from pregnancy care through old age. Our Triple Billion targets outline an ambitious plan for the world to achieve good health for all using science-based policies and programmes.
Where we work
Working with 194 Member States across 6 regions and on the ground in 150+ locations, the WHO team works to improve everyone’s ability to enjoy good health and well-being.
Who we work with
Collaboration is at the heart of all we do. From governments and civil society to international organizations, foundations, advocates, researchers and health workers, we mobilize every part of society to advance the health and security of all.
How we are governed
WHO’s work remains firmly rooted in the basic principles of the right to health and well-being for all people, as outlined in our 1948 Constitution. The World Health Assembly is the decision-making body of WHO and is attended by delegations from all Member States.
Accountability and funding
We are committed to the principle of accountability – a core value for an organization that is entrusted by countries and other donors to use limited resources effectively to protect and improve global health.
Our history and future
WHO’s work remains firmly rooted in the principles of equity, integrity and inclusion outlined in our Constitution.
WHO’s Transformation agenda modernizes our ways of working, while strengthening our connection and collaboration with the Member States and communities we serve.
WHO offers a diverse, multicultural environment for professionals seeking to advance health as a basic human right.