At Yale Medicine, we care.
As the clinical practice for the Yale School of Medicine, Yale Medicine’s doctors play multiple roles in advancing the practice of medicine – from treating and caring for patients, to developing new cures through innovative research, to educating future doctors.
We are the largest academic multispecialty practice in New England. Our doctors and researchers work together to achieve the best care possible.
Yale Medicine offers specialist expertise, advanced and innovative technology and a multidisciplinary approach. We deliver exceptional medical care in a nurturing environment to each of our patients, every day.
Why Choose Yale Medicine?
The Yale Medicine difference: Our values set us apart.
Our doctors are guided by five key values that drive everything we do.
-
We are innovative.
We translate leading scientific research into medical practice. -
We are human.
We treat people, not just conditions. -
We are collaborative.
We nurture health together, giving you the time and attention you deserve. -
We are inquisitive.
We're smart enough to know that we can always know more. -
We are passionate.
We bring our best every day; it's not just what we do, it's who we are.
Here when you need us.
We are expanding to ensure that we’re right where you need us. We currently offer more than 220 specialized clinical services in close to 200 locations throughout Connecticut, New York and Rhode Island. And we offer telehealth too, making our specialty care easily available no matter where you live.
Whatever your needs, wherever you are, know that our doctors work as a team to provide the care you need. We take the time to listen. We know that you are the most important member of your health care team; we develop care plans with you, instead of for you. Our collaborative approach ensures you receive the care you need, before, during and after each visit.
Partnerships built to advance medicine.
At Yale Medicine, our doctors are focused on advancing medicine for the good of our patients, colleagues and community.
Yale Medicine specialists collaborate with the Yale School of Medicine and Yale New Haven Health to provide the best possible care. As specialists working at an academic medical center, Yale Medicine doctors
- Develop new cures through clinical trials
- Access the extraordinary centers and equipment of Yale New Haven Hospital, one of the largest and best-known hospitals in the United States
- Train other doctors in the latest treatments and techniques
- Educate the next generation of doctors
Collectively we treat some of the most complex cases from around the world. Our partners include:
- Yale New Haven Hospital, the flagship of the Yale New Haven Health System and world-renowned for providing extraordinary care
- Yale New Haven Children’s Hospital, which includes campuses in New Haven and Bridgeport, as well as Pediatric Specialty Centers in Greenwich, New Haven, Norwalk, Trumbull and Old Saybrook
- Smilow Cancer Hospital, a leader in personalized cancer care, regularly recognized for excellence by U.S. News & World report
- VA Connecticut Healthcare System, providing inpatient and ambulatory care for veterans
- Connecticut Mental Health Center, one of the oldest community health centers in the United States
- Yale New Haven Psychiatric Hospital, a world leader in clinical care, research and education, recognized as one of the top psychiatric hospitals in the country by U.S. News & World Report
RSS FeedsCopy Link
Yale Medicine EditorialCopy Link
Learn more about the Yale Medicine Editorial Team
Contact UsCopy Link
Yale Medicine Leadership
Nancy J. Brown
MDMurat Günel
MD, FACS, FAHA, FAANSMargaret McGovern
MD, PhDAndrea Bradley
MHA, CHC, CHPCIain Burchell
Arnim Dontes
MBABerthe Erisnor
Patrick A. Kenney
MDRajlakshmi Krishnamurthy
MDRichard A Martinello
MDYollanda London
MPHDeborah Rhodes
MD, FACPLee Schwamm
MDGlynn Stanton
Nicole Wise